the 20th century was dominated by  delusions of passive progress and i  would say that in the 21st century we  have yet to replace these delusions with  a more pragmatic notion of how progress  will actively be achieved i was gonna do  a day in my life so i was showing  everything that wasn't jewish  so this was something else  you did hashtag jew talk israeli  rosh hashanah fish head  and traditions yeah cause this is like  people don't know why you have a fish  head at rosh hashanah and so forth were  you disappointed we didn't have a fish  yet it was so sad in the pomegranates no  one knew hebrew i was ready to speak  hebrew with people i was like so excited  about it and it just didn't happen so  you did this one here i love ju talk is  now your most common  it's popular  i got free falafels here for wearing an  israel shirt okay this is the one i had  a problem with no now trisha you know  you can't she says raiding my jew lunch  uh-huh do you not see what's the problem  with that i couldn't fit ish in there  but jew is like a derogative no  my jew lunch i think it's the way if you  say it i was writing like oh my jew  lunch  i can tell you with ahn with 100  certainty you cannot say that it's  offensive moses said it was fine and he  is from israel and had a bar mitzvah i  also saw israeli mata meal and i got  really excited because i said israeli  and hey my boyfriend's israelis so i  really love them and i love you guys if  you're israeli like shout out i love you  guys so much i also saw these chocolates  with these cute little kids on the box  and i was like oh we need to get them  and i saw even more chocolates and it's  like oh yeah yeah my israelis know  what's up the jews really love their  chocolates so i also got the chocolate  cereal that has some milky milk in it  which is really cool the juice also love  wafers which who would have known  what's in it  and a  oh my god  really yeah oh my god it's so good  i don't know how to say that in hebrew  but i know something i don't know that  oh my god it's all good  i'm sure you've guessed by now that this  is a serious video  about a serious topic  and if you found yourself laughing at  the first minute and a half  ask yourself why  and what is exactly you're laughing at  what it is that's so awkward  or perhaps so offensive  or so disturbing  about what you've just seen  isn't it possible that when we look at  trisha paytas  in her attempts to appropriate jewish  culture  we're actually looking at the best case  scenario  for the future  of judaism  of jewishness  and of anti-semitism  that may be the best thing we can hope  for  is that this just comes to be regarded  as another  normal culture  in the same sense that south korean  culture  or japanese culture it's it's just  another culture hate crimes against jews  have increased by nearly a third since  2010 according to the home affairs  select committee report and the volume  and viciousness of online abuse is  unprecedented  it's all news that comes as no surprise  to the community we will get calls from  visibly jewish people whether it's in  london north manchester gateshead leeds  other places who tell us that on a  regular basis when they walk to and from  synagogue they get abused shouted at  them by people on street corners by  people from passing cars they may get  stones or coins  thrown at them and for too many people  this is something they feel they have to  put up with because it's just part of  being jewish the report shows an 11 rise  in anti-semitic incidents in the first  half of this year compared to 2015. it  also shows the number of people in  britain with anti-semitic attitudes rose  by 50 in just 12 months  and as many as 1 in 20 adults in the uk  could now be characterized as clearly  anti-semitic  daniel and theo are barely in their  teens  children who say they've had vicious  hate shouted at them by grown men we  were getting onto a bus and a car was  driving by and seeing as we were wearing  our suits and our kid on our head  the car slowed down and shouted  jewish  i was thinking why do they feel that way  just because we're jewish i just felt it  was unfair in the same way that tricia  peters has just gotten enthusiastic  about both jewishness and the state of  israel specifically and has started kind  of collecting jewish stuff and wearing  pro-israel t-shirts every day  there are white guys who get a japanese  girlfriend  and start you know becoming fascinated  with and clothing themselves with  japanese culture going to japanese  markets eating japanese food so on and  so forth  does this really represent  something negative or is there something  more important for us to examine  in the negative public reaction to this  example and if you want to reply by  claiming  that the state of israel is in a  uniquely terrible political position  well no it's not unique is it it could  indeed be said that israel is a war-torn  country in a strange sort of cold war  situation with its neighbors  so is south korea  there are many countries and many  cultures all over the world that are in  a war-torn politically fraught situation  israel isn't unique  we make it unique  because of the expectations that we  place on israel because of this very  strange exceptionalism that's applied to  judaism and jewishness even if in  practice this is a form of racism that  it falls into the heading of ethnic  politics i would say that this problem  is  in principle  political how do you think your jewish  heritage impacts your vision of the  world and politics and do you think it  is a help or a hindrance to your role as  a candidate the american jewish  community experienced the highest level  of anti-semitic incidents last year  since tracking began in 1979 with more  than 2 100 acts of assault vandalism and  harassment reported across the united  states the total number of anti-semitic  incidents in 2019 increased 12 over the  previous year with a disturbing 56  increase in assaults jews were the  target of most religion-based hate  crimes in 2018. nearly 60 of hate crime  attacks were targeted against jews and  jewish institutions in 2018. in 2018  hate crime murders totaled 24 the  highest since the fbi began tracking and  reporting on hate crimes in 1991. the  increase is attributable to 2018 having  seen the deadliest anti-semitic hate  crime in american history when 11  worshippers were murdered in the three  congregations meeting at the tree of  life synagogue building in pittsburgh  people like louis farrakhan who called  jews satanic bloodsuckers and termites  are allowed to spew their vitriol on  twitter and instagram he has 340 000  followers on twitter if bernie sanders  is elected he would be your first jewish  american president as a jewish american  that would be a huge step forward in  this country and blow back against the  rise of anti-semitism in this country  as far as the uh as far as the uh  alt-right anti-semitism i mean as  somebody who received an inordinate  amount of hate from the alt-right in the  last year the anti-defamation league  named me the number one recipient of  anti-semitic tweets for journalists on  the internet last year uh and that was  largely driven by uh the the alt-right  um i think that people need to  understand what the alt-right actually  is and people who think they're all  right so not everybody who likes memes  is an alt-right person okay i think a  lot of these i think a lot of memes are  hilarious uh you know i'm particularly  fond of harambee memes so i'm there are  a lot of these things that i think are  really funny uh but i think that the  alt-right did a good marketing thing  when they broadened their appeal because  the actual basis of the alt-right  movement people like jared taylor and  richard spencer is is essentially a  white supremacist argument uh that the  that the white race created western  civilization and that outsiders to that  race are threats to western civilization  uh and i think that the rise of of that  movement uh is partially driven as a  reaction to the intersectionality theory  of the left any jewish people that vote  for a democrat  i think it shows either a total lack of  knowledge or great disloyalty you know  they were  chanting like in charlottesville  jews will not replace us and then having  a jew literally replace them would be  like that would be so satisfying you  also had people that were  very fine people on both sides tonight  neo-nazi in pennsylvania a small rural  town near the new york border splitting  apart by a growing movement filled with  hate the man at the center of it says  trump's election has emboldened him and  his followers it is definitely a  difficult time to be jewish right now  considering the trump administration's  anti-semitism and there's been a spike  in hate crimes and nazi empowerment so  on the left you've seen the this attempt  to basically paint everybody in the  united states as a member of a  particular  race or sex or sexual orientation  they're not individuals they're groups  and all of these groups have been  victimized by western civilization and  therefore they have to stand up and  fight back against western civilization  and there's a group of people on the  so-called alt-right who aren't  particularly conservative by the way  they're not in favor of smaller  government many of them many of them are  overtly anti-christian not just  anti-judaic and they come along and they  say okay well if intersectionality is  good for the left why can't it be good  for the right right why can't we have uh  why can't this be for white people right  if there's an interest group for black  people why not have an interest group  for white people and i think that that's  uh  that reactionary tendency gained some  steam during the last election cycle and  uh and because  they consider themselves to be  politically incorrect more than just  wrong  they they  glom on to a person they consider to be  politically incorrect which is president  trump i grew up in austria  i'm very aware of kristallnacht or the  night of broken glass  it was a night of rampage against the  jews carried out in 1938  by the nazi equivalent of the proud boys  i grew up in the ruins of a country  that suffered the laws of its democracy  my father's family  was wiped out by hitler in the holocaust  i know about what crazy and radical and  extremist politics mean i learned that  lesson as a tiny tiny child when my  mother would take me shopping and we  would see people working in stores who  had numbers on their arms because they  were in hitler's concentration camp i am  very proud of being jewish and that is  an essential part of who i am as a human  being what we are seeing right now we've  seen it in america and we're seeing this  all over the world there's a rise in  anti-semitism  we're seeing people being stabbed in new  york city because they were jewish if  there was ever a time in american  history  where we say  no to religious bigotry this is the time  if there is any people on earth who  understands the danger of racism and  white nationalism it is certainly the  jewish people this is not my normal  content as some of you know i am jewish  if you didn't know that surprise i've  also recently decided to try my hand at  making tick tocks which is when i made  the discovery that tiktok is a very  shitty place to be if you're jewish so  how did i make that discovery well one  day i was just sitting around and i  decided you know what i'm gonna make a  goofy little tick tock about what it's  like to be jewish on social media and  the response to that tick tock was  interesting  let me show you the tick tock  i see a lot of people doing their you  know social media activism but when it  comes to speaking out against  anti-semitism those same people are  completely silent so this was just like  my way of playfully poking fun at the  hypocrisy if i had to guess why people  don't want to speak out against  anti-semitism and in some cases why they  make anti-semitic comments online i  would say it's probably for one of the  following reasons a they incorrectly  assume that all jews are privileged and  therefore don't need allyship and  support b they're afraid of the backlash  which is you know understandable a lot  of people have some very unhealthy and  uneducated beliefs about jewish people c  they actually just don't like jewish  people d they simply do not give a [ __ ]  or e they're trolling this is where i  want to step into the video and disagree  with her productively because if i were  to make a numbered list of what the  problems are and what the solutions are  that they hint at implicitly out of a  very different set of concerns leading  to a very different set of conclusions  a large percentage of people i don't  know the percentage but a very large  percentage of people are simultaneously  fascinated by  and terrified of this idea that there  are secret clubs  that hold political power over them that  somewhere  there's a meeting  of special people  who discuss  what parliament is really going to do  what the senate or congress is really  going to do or what city hall is going  to do it is the abstract idea of this  possibility not the reality of the  political process in the country they're  living in that they're fascinated by and  that breeds these hysterical conspiracy  theories let me tell you something  there are clubs that you can join  today  where members of the social and  political elite meet to discuss the  future of your city your province your  state your country  the empire club of canada  in toronto has an open door they have a  website i think they have a youtube  channel where they upload these lectures  and if you join if you pay a couple  hundred dollars here and there you can  attend  special lectures given by the mayor  given by members of parliament given by  influential lawyers and leaders of  public opinion  here in victoria bc canada  it's the capital of this province the  union club was the best example i could  come up with if you take a moment to  look around probably in the city you're  living in or in the country you're  living in there are clubs of this kind  and if you tried to get involved  positively you might be shocked at just  how easy it is to participate and why  because so few people care  because the reality is  they have meetings where members of this  political elite come together to discuss  what should happen next  at parliament at congress  at city hall or even in foreign policy  or in economic planning and nobody shows  up  unless they're paid to and even when  they pay even when they pay a lot of  money  for someone with a phd from the  university to come and give a  presentation you'd be shocked and  horrified at how little sincere interest  there is in the future of our democracy  you'd be shocked at the extent to which  these elites  are voluntary  in terms of their participation that  they're just comprised of whoever it is  that wants to dedicate the time  to really show an interest in the future  of their  polity  very striking illustrative example here  of a young woman  she was a university student in  california  who became an influential and important  person in american politics  just by showing  up  she didn't have money she didn't have  connections she didn't have a conspiracy  behind her and right now there's an  investigation there's a suspicion that  she was doing this  in order to spy on the united states of  america  on behalf of the government of china but  we don't know that that's just a theory  that's just an allegation we don't know  that what did she actually do  well there were these meetings  for mayors  in the united states america for  municipal level government to get  together and have a meeting and guess  what just like the elite clubs i alluded  to before just like the empire club of  canada and so on  anyone can show up  and she showed up  so she got to sit down at the table with  and talk to and theoretically lobby or  influence  mayors  and then later congressmen  and then later senators she had no  qualifications  she was a member  of the asian pacific islander  association  of her university and as the text says  on screen she used this um i don't know  what's her business card she used this  to get her foot in the door just to say  she had some reason to be there or some  reason to talk to these people she  showed up you can show up too  you can participate in the democratic  forums in your country you know what the  truth is  even if you live in a country that is  not a democracy you would be amazed you  would be amazed at how many public  consultations there are how many forms  there are how many opportunities there  are  for people to show up and at least hear  what people in government have to say if  not chit chat with them inform them how  many social forums of this kind there  are going on behind the scenes every day  the people who think this way take zero  interest in political power themselves  they have zero interest in participating  in the political process themselves they  have zero interest in the actually  existing clubs of this kind and then  reciprocal with that mentality  is this over-the-top hysteria  about jews and jewishness in specific  and you will find that those same  hysterical attitudes can be applied and  are applied just as readily to the idea  of a russian conspiracy existing behind  the scenes in the united states of  america to the idea of a chinese  conspiracy  existing behind the scenes united states  america and the way to overcome this is  both to make the real political process  more transparent more democratically  accountable and to give people a higher  level of education so they know  precisely how boring the reality is of  participating in that democratic or  undemocratic political process  [Music]  wonder woman lady oh yeah  girl ghetto  miss israel  super beautiful woman  [Music]  is  [Music]  gadot is so great at being wonderful  girl good old  she's in a fast and furious province  she's a justice big woman  the 20th century was dominated by  delusions  of passive progress and i would say that  in the 21st century we have yet to  replace these delusions with a more  pragmatic notion of how progress will  actively be achieved what do i mean by  passive progress the idea that passively  people all over the world will get less  and less racist with the passage of time  and why  just because just because there's some  invisible force like gravity pulling  people down to earth that's just going  to make people less racist less mutually  invidious  with the passage of time no particular  government program is going to force  this to happen no particular decision  made democratically or undemocratically  no particular direction taken on by  education just the passage of time  itself would result in the whole world  becoming one more secular two more  scientific in their attitudes three more  mutually accepting and mutually  appreciative i don't know maybe it's the  fact that there were more and more  chinese restaurants in downtown new york  city people had the delusion that this  alone would bring about a golden age of  um i don't know the unification of all  peoples and all cultures around the  world it's not going to happen  unless you force it to happen and i do  think i'm jewish myself i do think that  judaism and jewishness has played this  unique catalysts role  in the western reappraisal of what the  nation state is supposed to be what the  future of nationalism is and what the  future of ethnicity is supposed to be  this is not only because of the  holocaust this is the most examined  chapter of the story it also has to be  pointed out more broadly the jews  themselves already during the french  revolution  were perceived as in some ways the most  secular most atheistic most cosmopolitan  part of the population  in the 20th century it's fair to say  that the idea of what an american jew  looked like and how they spoke and acted  was someone like jerry seinfeld and  someone like jerry seinfeld is a  cosmopolitan  secular if not overtly atheist  a modern leading edge supposedly  intelligent sort of guy that's the image  of supposedly who jews are and what they  represent and now if you just take five  minutes to look at the demographics of  the modern state of israel you're gonna  see not only is this not true  it's not the direction the state of  israel is going in the percentage of  israeli jews who are religious who are  extremely religious who are heredis  the percentage of the state of israel  who look and act and sound and think  nothing like jerry seinfeld but who fall  into a very different category and you  relate to the ongoing peace process of  the palestinians and changing foreign  policy led by jared kushner and  reconciliation with  neighboring arab states who relate to  those global and local politics in a  profoundly different way that we  profoundly can't understand  the delusion of the 20th century was  that all of these problems would just  passively disappear and from the other  side  anti-semitism would disappear  because the delusion was  the masses of christians in the world  the masses of muslims in the world were  going to catch up  with jerry seinfeld that just passively  scientific  cosmopolitan secular attitudes were  going to blossom for no reason at all  i would say this is a bit like the  delusion of  passive effortless weight loss you've  got to look in the mirror at some point  and say  nothing is going to change unless i  change it unless i really make a  commitment to not just try harder but to  really suffer  right  that's when you're going to lose weight  that's when you're going to get in shape  nothing is going to change culturally or  religiously  unless we commit to  a kind of transformation personally  individually politically culturally in a  larger scale that's going to entail  terrible suffering and yes it is  probably going to entail the government  making very hard decisions that will be  bitterly protested against by people who  you know value their own religion more  or value their ethnicity more than the  future of having a genuinely pluralistic  democracy where these people sit at one  table they're educated in one school and  they debate the future of their country  in one in the same parliament as equals  you can say i'm a jew from israel but  you can't use jew as an adjective like  jew lunch sounds [ __ ] up people can  say they're a jew and i can't say jew  lunch hey i'm like promoting this like  culture  yeah but you're kind of like  this is kind of like cultural  appropriation isn't it  appreciation right okay that's this i  think it is so many israelis will like  be like thank you so much for like you  know speaking hebrew like a lot of  people like say thank you for it and i  mean there's some that hate it but  there are some that hate it would you  get aid comments yeah i mean there's  certain people that are like what are  they saying i mean that's where just  like people who say free palestine they  get pissed off but i don't know oh it's  not the jews that get in the american  jews that get angry which aren't real  jews you're like  what's like calm down you're from  ventura california like you know you  don't know the struggle at the start of  this video i talked about the  possibility with trisha paytas as my  somewhat amusing example the possibility  that the best case scenario for the  future of judaism and jewishness would  be for it to come to be regarded just as  a culture just another culture in the  world no more remarkable then and maybe  no less remarkable than  japanese culture or south korean just  being a culture that someone like trisha  paytas could become enthusiastic about  now let's all pause for a minute and  think about why that's not going to  happen or why it's not going to happen  during my lifetime all right  anti-semitism is reciprocal with  christianity anti-semitism is reciprocal  with islam the other part of the  delusion of passive progress was just  that muslim people were going to give up  being muslim christians we're going to  give up being christians and even under  communism in eastern europe in russia  the ukraine poland we can see that's not  true that didn't happen at all today  it's not just that christianity has been  revived in eastern europe anti-semitism  has been revived along with it  anti-semitism and a fascination with  judaism the assumption that jews are  some kind of special exceptional people  in the history of the world and in the  future of the world that mentality of  jewish exceptionalism is hardwired into  christianity as a religion and christian  culture it is hardwired into islam and  muslim culture to an unbelievable extent  there is a sense in which we can never  achieve this future we can never achieve  this ideal of the whole world having  attitudes as sophisticated as tricia  paid us which is to say  not terribly sophisticated at all we  can't even achieve that  unless or until  we overcome  christianity and islam in other words  we're going to have a problem with  anti-semitism for as long as we have a  culture  dominated by the judeo-christian  religions ultimately the bible is a book  about jews written by and for jews and  paradoxically it provides the basis for  two of the largest most powerful and  most intensely anti-semitic religions of  the world namely christianity and islam  talk boss featuring words that kill my  slingers editorial explicit material  briefcase show live a stereo flow  filming donna realty set the black  people free and that's what it's all  about you know everyone will always have  something to say about any issue